docs: Document server metrics (#23)
eik-lib/eik-lib.github.io: docs/server_metrics.md

---
id: server_metrics
title: Eik server - Metrics
sidebar_label: Metrics
---

> The Eik server exposes a [metric stream](https://github.com/metrics-js/client) which emit internal metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Eik server exposes a [metric stream](https://github.com/metrics-js/client) which emits internal metrics
```

on the server. These metrics are intended to give numbers on how the server as an application is behaving and 

> performing and is an important tool in the toolbox for monitoring the servers health status. These metrics are 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
performing and is an important tool in the toolbox for monitoring the servers health status. These metrics do 
```

> not statistics on assets uploaded to the asset server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not provide statistics on assets uploaded to the asset server.
```

> The metrics the server provide is not bound to a given metric system so its possible to provide the metrics to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The metrics the server provides are not bound to any particular metric system so it's possible to provide the metrics to 
```

> any monitoring system one prefer. The metric stream emits a set of generic metric objects one can alter and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any monitoring system as preferred. The metric stream emits a set of generic metric objects that can be altered and
```

> pipe in any way one would prefer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
piped as desired.
```

> Please see [@metrics/client](https://github.com/metrics-js/client) for examples of consuming these metrics into 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please see [@metrics/client](https://github.com/metrics-js/client) for examples of how to consume these metrics in 
```

> your favorite monitoring system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your preferred monitoring system.
```

## Usage

> The `@eik/service` module exposes a `.metric` property. This property holds a plain node.js object stream which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@eik/service` module exposes a `.metric` property. This property holds a plain Node.js object stream which
```

emits the metrics as objects on the stream.

> This stream can be piped into a metrics consumer or any other node.js writable / transform stream for further 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This stream can be piped into a metrics consumer or any other Node.js writable / transform stream for further 
```

processing.

> Example of metrics piped into a prometheus consumer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example of metrics being piped into a prometheus consumer:
```

```js
const MetricsConsumer = require('@metrics/prometheus-consumer');
const prometheus = require('prom-client');
const Service = require('@eik/service');
const fastify = require('fastify');

const service = new Service();

const metricsConsumer = new MetricsConsumer({
    client: prometheus,
});

service.metrics.pipe(metricsConsumer);

const app = fastify();
app.register(service.api());

app.get('/_/metrics', (request, reply) => {
    reply.type(metricsConsumer.registry.contentType);
    reply.send(metricsConsumer.registry.metrics());
});

const run = async () => {
    await app.listen(8080, '0.0.0.0');
}
run();
```

## Metrics

Each metric provided by the server has a unique `name` and a `type` defining what type (counter, histogram, etc) of 

> metrics it is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metric it is.
```
